Back to our application then. There is one area, the recipes, which we haven't migrated to NgRx yet and
that is what I want to do now and for this in the recipes folder, I'll start by adding a store folder
and in that store folder, I want to add a recipe.reducer.ts file, a recipe.actions.ts
file and also already, a recipes.effects.ts file because we will certainly need all three
things.
Now let's start with the recipe reducer
and in there, you learned it's basically a function, so we will have to export a function here and
that's the recipe reducer function or whatever you want to call it
and just as before
it is a function which will receive a state and an action and then you have to return
a new state in there.
Now also just as before, of course we want to have an initial state
and I also wanted to find the structure of my state, so how the state will look like. For that I'll export
an interface which is my state for this part of the application,
so my recipe
state
so to say and now how does the state for recipes look like?
Well if we have a look at the recipes service, we see in the end we're only interested in recipes.
We manage that thus far through the recipes changed subject which we use to emit a copy of our recipes
but therefore in the end, this recipes array, that is our relevant state for the recipes.
So in here, in my state for the recipes part of my @ngrx/store, it makes sense to have the recipes
array and this will be of type recipe array,
so you need to import that recipe model here.
Now that describes how the state will look like for this part of the app,
let's now set up the initial state and that will be an object of that type, so of that state type
we just defined, hence we need a recipes array and you could start with some recipes here
but I will initialize this to be an empty array initially.
So that's the first step,
now obviously we also need some actions to deal with our recipes and which actions would that be?
Well we have actions for a setting multiple recipes at once, getting is not an action, we do this
with select.
So we have actions for adding a recipe and we also have actions for updating a recipe and deleting a
recipe, we'll also need actions for fetching recipes from a server and for restoring recipes on a server.
Let's go to the recipe.action file and let's maybe start with the simple actions we have here,
so the actions related to setting recipes so that we can see something as quick as possible.
So I will add set recipes here and we'll give this this prefix, recipes, that's the feature area and then
set recipes,
of course the exact string value here is totally up to you.
We'll also needs to import that action interface from @ngrx/store so that we can create our
action classes and for now I will create one class here,
the set recipes class which will of course implement the action interface and which therefore requires
a readonly type which is just SET_RECIPES.
Now set recipes as the name suggests of course will be responsible for,
well guess what?
Setting some recipes and hence, we will definitely need a payload here which can now be stored through
the constructor and that payload here will just be that array of recipes which I want to set.
For that of course, we need to import recipe here from the recipe model.
Last but not least, let's create such a union type already so that we can conveniently add a type assignment
to the action we're getting in our reducer and that would be the recipes actions, right now simply
set recipes
and it's of course an exported type.
OK,
so that's the first action we need,
now in the recipe reducer here, we should add logic to set recipes. So later we will have multiple actions,
hence a switch statement makes sense to switch on the action type,
side note I also of course want to use my initial state here for initializing the state and on the action,
I also want to be clear about the type of the action, for that we can import everything as recipes actions
from the store, from the recipe actions file and hence here, the type for the action we're getting in the
reducer is RecipesActions.RecipesActions. Now in the switch statement,
this is the action type we're checking, the first case I want to handle is RecipesActions.SET_RECIPES
and of course I will also add a default case where I just return my state unchanged. But back
to the recipes, set recipes case, there
I also want to return an object or we have to return an object but again, the goal is here to first copy
the existing state and now with that being copied, overwrite the recipes in there by taking the recipes
we find in the action.payload because the action.payload here of course has an array of recipes.
So here, I will just use the spread operator to get my action.payload,
this will pull out all the elements from the recipes array I'm getting and add these recipes here to
these recipes array of the new state.
So that's the reducer and action setup, as a next step
let's make sure we dispatch set recipes once we have our recipes
and of course let's make sure that we select these recipes to show them on the user interface. Dispatching
for now will be done in the data storage service, there we do fetch the recipes and once we have them,
right now we're calling recipes service set recipes,
that's not what we'll do, instead
now, we can remove the auth service by the way, we don't need that here anymore,
instead now I want to inject my store here, like this and this needs a generic type, @ngrx/store
is by the way of course the package from which you import it and I can also clean up some other imports
now that I have a look at it but that's of course not the main goal here, instead the store needs to
be imported,
it's a generic type and therefore now we need to get our AppState here, even though we're not selecting
in this class.
Now for this, we first of all should update our app reducer because right now it only knows the shopping
list and auth area,
well that is about to change though.
Let's import everything as from recipes from the recipes store,
recipe reducer.
Now we should add recipes as a slice in our global state here and reference from recipes state and of
course that means that in the app reducer here, I also will add recipes and then from recipes, recipe
reducer here.
With that the global application reducer is updated and back in the data storage service, we can now import
from that reducer,
so import everything as from app from that global store app reducer
and then we have fromApp.AppState here as the type, as the generic type
our store will eventually resolve to. However, I only need the store here to of course dispatch,
so here once we've got the recipes, we can call this store dispatch and now we also need the recipes
actions to dispatch
such an action, so I import everything as recipes actions from
the recipes folder, the store folder and from there, the recipe actions file. With the
recipes actions imported here in the data storage service, let's create a new recipes, recipes action
and that would be the set recipes action to which I pass the recipes we got from the server. So now we're
dispatching this set recipes action,
now we need to change the places where we're interested in the recipes
and that is the case in the recipe list component.
So in there,
let's now also inject our store which is of type store and again for that, I have to import store from
@ngrx/store
and now I want to add my AppState
by importing from app, from the app reducer and then here it's fromApp.AppState, like this.
And now here instead of subscribing to recipe changed on the recipe service, I rather use the store and
select the recipes area, however there I don't get a list of recipes, instead I get an object which has
a recipes key, I get the state slice of my recipes area but with pipe and map, we can easily transform
this, map is imported from rxjs/operators of course, so we can easily transform this now, we get
our recipes state and what I want to return here is in the end just my recipes,
well we can simply add map like this,
pull out the recipes, return them to the next step in line. We could also get rid of that get recipes called
here. Now with that change, we can also remove the injected recipe service here in the recipe list. Now
let's give this a try,
let's save that and here in our application, if I now fetch my recipes, they do show up here.
However I'm getting an error if I try to select one which makes sense because keep in mind that the
rest of the app still tries to access recipe data from the recipe service but there, our recipes are
no longer loaded into because we're now loading them in our @ngrx/store and hence at the moment, only
those parts of the app will work where we do access our recipes from the store.
So it's time to also adjust other parts of the application.